Implementation.md, before:

# Schema for creating certificates

Please read the following instructions carefully in order to create commonly compatible DCCs using the `/api/v2/issue` API.  
The following information adheres to the [Guidelines on Technical Specifications for EU Digital COVID Certificates JSON Schema Specification Schema version 1.3.0 2021-06-09](https://ec.europa.eu/health/sites/default/files/ehealth/docs/covid-certificate_json_specification_en.pdf) and the [eHealth Network Repository for the Digital Covid Certificate Schema](https://github.com/ehn-dcc-development/eu-dcc-schema), but also includes further information, e.g. for **booster vaccinations**. Please bear in mind, that specifications for the Digitales Impfquotenmonitoring by the RKI might be different from the specifications for the certificates.

The APIs can be used to issue both vaccination and recovery certificates. Vaccination certificates document a single vaccination dose, like for example first dose, second dose or a booster dose. Recovery certificates document a recovery from COVID-19 detected by a positive PCR test.  
Any certificate should only contain a single record: a single vaccination or a single recovery statement.

## Vocabulary EN/DE

* vaccination certificate = Impfzertifikat
* recovery certificate = Genesenenzertifikat
* recovery vaccination (A vaccination, after a person has recovered from COVID-19) = Genesenenimpfung (Impfung, nachdem eine Person eine COVID-19 Erkrankung durchlaufen hat)
* cross vaccination = Kreuzimpfung
* booster vaccination = Auffrischimpfung

## Information for all types of certificates

All certificates must be provided with information on the receiver of the certificate. At least one of the fields `nam/fn` and `nam/gn` must be provided. The field `dob` must always be provided. 
* `nam/fn`: Surname(s), such as family name(s), of the holder. If the holder has no surnames, this field MUST be skipped. Otherwise, all surnames must be included in it. In case of multiple surnames, these MUST be separated by a space. Combination names including hyphens or similar characters must however stay the same. ≤ 80 characters.
* `nam/gn`: Forename(s), such as given name(s), of the holder. If the holder has no forenames, the field MUST be skipped. In all other cases, exactly 1 (one) non-empty field MUST be provided, with all forenames included in it. In case of multiple forenames, these MUST be separated by a space. ≤ 80 characters.
* `dob`: Date of birth of the DCC holder. Complete or partial date without time restricted to the range from 1900-01-01 to 2099-12-31\. Exactly 1 (one) non-empty field MUST be provided if the complete or partial date of birth is known. If the date of birth is not known even partially, the field MUST be set to an empty string "". This should match the information as provided on travel documents. One of the following ISO 8601 formats MUST be used if information on date of birth is available. Other options are not supported. `YYYY-MM-DD`, `YYYY-MM`, `YYYY`  
  Example:

```json
"nam": {
"fn": "Musterfrau",
"gn": "Max"
},
"dob": "1991-02-03"
```

## Vaccination Certificates

Vaccination records are marked with `v`, for example:

```json
{
  "nam": {
    "fn": "Musterfrau",
    "gn": "Max"
  },
  "dob": "1991-02-03",
  "v": [
    {
      "id": "IZ28215B",
      "tg": "840539006",
      "vp": "1119305005",
      "mp": "EU/1/20/1528",
      "ma": "ORG-100001699",
      "dn": 1,
      "sd": 2,
      "dt": "2021-04-14"
    }
  ]
}
```

The fields within the vaccination certificate request must be as follows:

* `id`: Identifier of the administering location (i.e. vaccination center ID / DIM-ID, BSNR or similar identifier). It will be used in the construction of the DGCI (digital green certificate identifier). Due to the specification of the DGCI only the use of uppercase letters and numbers 0-9 are allowed. `^[0-9A-Z]+$`
* `tg`: The disease agent targeted as defined by SNOMED CT. Currently for COVID-19, only `"840539006"` is to be used.
* for the different vaccines, the following values for `vp` (vaccine prophylaxis), `mp` (medicinal product) and `ma` (marketing authorisation holder or manfacturer, if no marketing authprization holder is present) shall be used:


  |Vaccine Name|`vp`|`mp`|`ma`|
  |------------|----|----|----|
  |Comirnaty (BionTech/Pfizer)|`1119349007` or `J07BX03`|`EU/1/20/1528`|`ORG-100030215`|
  |Spikevax (Moderna)|`1119349007` or `J07BX03`|`EU/1/20/1507`|`ORG-100031184`|
  |Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca)|`J07BX03`|`EU/1/21/1529`|`ORG-100001699`|
  |COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen (Johnson and Johnson)|`J07BX03`|`EU/1/20/1525`|`ORG-100001417`|
  |Nuvaxovid (Novavax)|`J07BX03`|`EU/1/21/1618`|`ORG-100032020`|


### Values for `dn` and `sd` for base vaccinations with the same vaccine

Base vaccinations are regular vaccinations with the same vaccine.  

Valid values for regular vaccinations are limited to

* for the vaccines by BioNTech/Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Novavax:
    * `sd` must always be `2`
    * `dn` can either be `1` for the first dose or `2` for the second dose
* for the vaccine by Johnson and Johnson:
    * `sd` must always be `1`
    * `dn` must always be `1`

Note that in Germany, a single Johnson and Johnson vaccination is no longer considered as sufficient for a full base immunization,
see [here](https://www.zusammengegencorona.de/informieren/alltag-und-reisen/aktuelle-regelungen/#id-2420cc5c-901c-511d-838c-ab45352bf95b). 
Thus, only a second vaccination following the first Johnson and Johnson vaccination is considered as a full base vaccination. 
Please refer to the following section on how to encode these subsequent vaccinations. 

### Values for `dn` and `sd` for base vaccinations with the different vaccines (cross vaccinations)

Cross vaccinations are second dose vaccinations, where the first dose has been a different vaccine than the second dose.

Valid values for cross vaccinations are limited to

* for the vaccines by BioNTech/Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Novavax following a first-dose vaccination with one of the vaccines
  by BioNTech/Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca:
    * `sd` must always be `2`
    * `dn` must always be `2`
* for the vaccines by BioNTech/Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Novavax following a first-dose vaccination with the vaccine by
  Johnson and Johnson
    * `sd` must always be `1`
    * `dn` must always be `2`

### Values for `dn` and `sd` for recovery vaccinations

Recovery vaccinations are second dose vaccinations, where the patient has recovered from COVID-19 before.

Valid values for recovery vaccinations are limited to

* for the vaccines by BioNTech/Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Novavax:
    * `sd` must always be `1`
    * `dn` must always be `1`
* for the vaccines by Johnson and Johnson
    * `sd` must always be `1`
    * `dn` must always be `1`

### Values for `dn` and `sd` for booster vaccinations

Booster vaccinations are vaccinations after the patient has received her full vaccination series by base or cross vaccinations. 
Booster vaccinations can be with the same vaccine or with different vaccines as before.

Valid values for booster vaccines are limited to

* for booster vaccinations following a 2/2 base vaccination with vaccines from BioNTech/Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Novavax:
    * `sd` must always equal to `dn` and equal to the total number of vaccinations received
* for booster vaccinations following a 2/1 base vaccination with vaccines from BioNTech/Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Novavax:
    * `sd` must always be `1`
    * `dn` must equal to the total number of vaccinations received
* for a booster vaccination following a 1/1 recovery vaccination
    * `sd` must always be `1`
    * `dn` must equal to the total number of vaccinations received
    
This implies, that

* for a person with a full base vaccination series by the BioNTech/Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccines (or
  combinations of which)
    * the first booster vaccination will be issued as `sd=3` and `dn=3`
    * the second booster vaccination will be issued as `sd=4` and `dn=4`
    * etc.
* for a person with a full base vaccination series by the vaccine by Johnson and Johnson following a BioNTech/Pfizer,
  Moderna, AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccine
    * the first booster vaccination will be issued as `sd=1` and `dn=3`
    * the second booster vaccination will be issued as `sd=1` and `dn=4`
    * etc.
* for a person with a recovery vaccination by any vaccine
    * the first booster vaccination will be issued as `sd=1` and `dn=2`
    * the second booster vaccination will be issued as `sd=1` and `dn=3`
    * etc.

## Recovery Certificates

Vaccination records are marked with `r`, for example:

```json	
{
	"nam": {
		"fn": "Musterfrau",
		"gn": "Max"
	}, 
	"dob": "1991-02-03",
	"r": [{
			"id": "BSNR12345",
            "tg": "840539006",
            "fr": "2021-04-21",
            "df": "2021-05-01",
            "du": "2021-10-21"
        }]
}
```

The fields within the recovery certificate request must be as follows:

* `id`: Identifier of the administering location (i.e. vaccination center ID / DIM-ID, BSNR or similar identifier). It will be used in the construction of the DGCI (digital green certificate identifier). Due to the specification of the DGCI only the use of uppercase letters and numbers 0-9 are allowed. `^[0-9A-Z]+$`
* `tg`: The disease agent targeted as defined by SNOMED CT. Currently for COVID-19, only `"840539006"` is to be used.
* `fr`: The date when a sample for the NAAT/PCR test producing a positive result was collected, in the format `YYYY-MM-DD`.
* `df`: The first date on which the certificate is considered to be valid. The first date valid begins on the 28th day after the date of the sample collection, so `df` must be `fr + 28 days`
* `du`: The last date on which the certificate is considered to be valid. A recovery certificate must not be issued for NAAT/PCR tests older than 180 days. The date for `du` must be
    * after or equal `fr`
    * before or equal `fr + 180 days`.

## Further resources

* [https://ec.europa.eu/health/ehealth/covid-19_en](https://ec.europa.eu/health/ehealth/covid-19_en)
* [https://ec.europa.eu/health/sites/default/files/ehealth/docs/covid-certificate_json_specification_en.pdf](https://ec.europa.eu/health/sites/default/files/ehealth/docs/covid-certificate_json_specification_en.pdf)
* [https://github.com/ehn-dcc-development/ehn-dcc-valuesets](https://github.com/ehn-dcc-development/ehn-dcc-valuesets)

Commit message:

Add Jcovden vaccine and add vp value for Vaxzevria

Implementation.md, after:

# Schema for creating certificates

Please read the following instructions carefully in order to create commonly compatible DCCs using the `/api/v2/issue` API.  
The following information adheres to the [Guidelines on Technical Specifications for EU Digital COVID Certificates JSON Schema Specification Schema version 1.3.0 2021-06-09](https://ec.europa.eu/health/sites/default/files/ehealth/docs/covid-certificate_json_specification_en.pdf) and the [eHealth Network Repository for the Digital Covid Certificate Schema](https://github.com/ehn-dcc-development/eu-dcc-schema), but also includes further information, e.g. for **booster vaccinations**. Please bear in mind, that specifications for the Digitales Impfquotenmonitoring by the RKI might be different from the specifications for the certificates.

The APIs can be used to issue both vaccination and recovery certificates. Vaccination certificates document a single vaccination dose, like for example first dose, second dose or a booster dose. Recovery certificates document a recovery from COVID-19 detected by a positive PCR test.  
Any certificate should only contain a single record: a single vaccination or a single recovery statement.

## Vocabulary EN/DE

* vaccination certificate = Impfzertifikat
* recovery certificate = Genesenenzertifikat
* recovery vaccination (A vaccination, after a person has recovered from COVID-19) = Genesenenimpfung (Impfung, nachdem eine Person eine COVID-19 Erkrankung durchlaufen hat)
* cross vaccination = Kreuzimpfung
* booster vaccination = Auffrischimpfung

## Information for all types of certificates

All certificates must be provided with information on the receiver of the certificate. At least one of the fields `nam/fn` and `nam/gn` must be provided. The field `dob` must always be provided. 
* `nam/fn`: Surname(s), such as family name(s), of the holder. If the holder has no surnames, this field MUST be skipped. Otherwise, all surnames must be included in it. In case of multiple surnames, these MUST be separated by a space. Combination names including hyphens or similar characters must however stay the same. ≤ 80 characters.
* `nam/gn`: Forename(s), such as given name(s), of the holder. If the holder has no forenames, the field MUST be skipped. In all other cases, exactly 1 (one) non-empty field MUST be provided, with all forenames included in it. In case of multiple forenames, these MUST be separated by a space. ≤ 80 characters.
* `dob`: Date of birth of the DCC holder. Complete or partial date without time restricted to the range from 1900-01-01 to 2099-12-31\. Exactly 1 (one) non-empty field MUST be provided if the complete or partial date of birth is known. If the date of birth is not known even partially, the field MUST be set to an empty string "". This should match the information as provided on travel documents. One of the following ISO 8601 formats MUST be used if information on date of birth is available. Other options are not supported. `YYYY-MM-DD`, `YYYY-MM`, `YYYY`  
  Example:

```json
"nam": {
"fn": "Musterfrau",
"gn": "Max"
},
"dob": "1991-02-03"
```

## Vaccination Certificates

Vaccination records are marked with `v`, for example:

```json
{
  "nam": {
    "fn": "Musterfrau",
    "gn": "Max"
  },
  "dob": "1991-02-03",
  "v": [
    {
      "id": "IZ28215B",
      "tg": "840539006",
      "vp": "1119305005",
      "mp": "EU/1/20/1528",
      "ma": "ORG-100001699",
      "dn": 1,
      "sd": 2,
      "dt": "2021-04-14"
    }
  ]
}
```

The fields within the vaccination certificate request must be as follows:

* `id`: Identifier of the administering location (i.e. vaccination center ID / DIM-ID, BSNR or similar identifier). It will be used in the construction of the DGCI (digital green certificate identifier). Due to the specification of the DGCI only the use of uppercase letters and numbers 0-9 are allowed. `^[0-9A-Z]+$`
* `tg`: The disease agent targeted as defined by SNOMED CT. Currently for COVID-19, only `"840539006"` is to be used.
* for the different vaccines, the following values for `vp` (vaccine prophylaxis), `mp` (medicinal product) and `ma` (marketing authorisation holder or manfacturer, if no marketing authprization holder is present) shall be used:


  |Vaccine Name|`vp`|`mp`|`ma`|
  |------------|----|----|----|
  |Comirnaty (BionTech/Pfizer)|`1119349007` or `J07BX03`|`EU/1/20/1528`|`ORG-100030215`|
  |Spikevax (Moderna)|`1119349007` or `J07BX03`|`EU/1/20/1507`|`ORG-100031184`|
  |Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca)|`29061000087103` or `J07BX03`|`EU/1/21/1529`|`ORG-100001699`|
  |COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen (Johnson and Johnson)|`J07BX03`|`EU/1/20/1525`|`ORG-100001417`|
  |Nuvaxovid (Novavax)|`J07BX03`|`EU/1/21/1618`|`ORG-100032020`|
  |Jcovden (Johnson und Johnson)|`29061000087103` or `J07BX03`|`EU/1/20/1525`|`ORG-100001417`|


### Values for `dn` and `sd` for base vaccinations with the same vaccine

Base vaccinations are regular vaccinations with the same vaccine.  

Valid values for regular vaccinations are limited to

* for the vaccines by BioNTech/Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Novavax:
    * `sd` must always be `2`
    * `dn` can either be `1` for the first dose or `2` for the second dose
* for the vaccine by Johnson and Johnson:
    * `sd` must always be `1`
    * `dn` must always be `1`

Note that in Germany, a single Johnson and Johnson vaccination is no longer considered as sufficient for a full base immunization,
see [here](https://www.zusammengegencorona.de/informieren/alltag-und-reisen/aktuelle-regelungen/#id-2420cc5c-901c-511d-838c-ab45352bf95b). 
Thus, only a second vaccination following the first Johnson and Johnson vaccination is considered as a full base vaccination. 
Please refer to the following section on how to encode these subsequent vaccinations. 

### Values for `dn` and `sd` for base vaccinations with the different vaccines (cross vaccinations)

Cross vaccinations are second dose vaccinations, where the first dose has been a different vaccine than the second dose.

Valid values for cross vaccinations are limited to

* for the vaccines by BioNTech/Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Novavax following a first-dose vaccination with one of the vaccines
  by BioNTech/Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca:
    * `sd` must always be `2`
    * `dn` must always be `2`
* for the vaccines by BioNTech/Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Novavax following a first-dose vaccination with the vaccine by
  Johnson and Johnson
    * `sd` must always be `1`
    * `dn` must always be `2`

### Values for `dn` and `sd` for recovery vaccinations

Recovery vaccinations are second dose vaccinations, where the patient has recovered from COVID-19 before.

Valid values for recovery vaccinations are limited to

* for the vaccines by BioNTech/Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Novavax:
    * `sd` must always be `1`
    * `dn` must always be `1`
* for the vaccines by Johnson and Johnson
    * `sd` must always be `1`
    * `dn` must always be `1`

### Values for `dn` and `sd` for booster vaccinations

Booster vaccinations are vaccinations after the patient has received her full vaccination series by base or cross vaccinations. 
Booster vaccinations can be with the same vaccine or with different vaccines as before.

Valid values for booster vaccines are limited to

* for booster vaccinations following a 2/2 base vaccination with vaccines from BioNTech/Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Novavax:
    * `sd` must always equal to `dn` and equal to the total number of vaccinations received
* for booster vaccinations following a 2/1 base vaccination with vaccines from BioNTech/Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Novavax:
    * `sd` must always be `1`
    * `dn` must equal to the total number of vaccinations received
* for a booster vaccination following a 1/1 recovery vaccination
    * `sd` must always be `1`
    * `dn` must equal to the total number of vaccinations received
    
This implies, that

* for a person with a full base vaccination series by the BioNTech/Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccines (or
  combinations of which)
    * the first booster vaccination will be issued as `sd=3` and `dn=3`
    * the second booster vaccination will be issued as `sd=4` and `dn=4`
    * etc.
* for a person with a full base vaccination series by the vaccine by Johnson and Johnson following a BioNTech/Pfizer,
  Moderna, AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccine
    * the first booster vaccination will be issued as `sd=1` and `dn=3`
    * the second booster vaccination will be issued as `sd=1` and `dn=4`
    * etc.
* for a person with a recovery vaccination by any vaccine
    * the first booster vaccination will be issued as `sd=1` and `dn=2`
    * the second booster vaccination will be issued as `sd=1` and `dn=3`
    * etc.

## Recovery Certificates

Vaccination records are marked with `r`, for example:

```json	
{
	"nam": {
		"fn": "Musterfrau",
		"gn": "Max"
	}, 
	"dob": "1991-02-03",
	"r": [{
			"id": "BSNR12345",
            "tg": "840539006",
            "fr": "2021-04-21",
            "df": "2021-05-01",
            "du": "2021-10-21"
        }]
}
```

The fields within the recovery certificate request must be as follows:

* `id`: Identifier of the administering location (i.e. vaccination center ID / DIM-ID, BSNR or similar identifier). It will be used in the construction of the DGCI (digital green certificate identifier). Due to the specification of the DGCI only the use of uppercase letters and numbers 0-9 are allowed. `^[0-9A-Z]+$`
* `tg`: The disease agent targeted as defined by SNOMED CT. Currently for COVID-19, only `"840539006"` is to be used.
* `fr`: The date when a sample for the NAAT/PCR test producing a positive result was collected, in the format `YYYY-MM-DD`.
* `df`: The first date on which the certificate is considered to be valid. The first date valid begins on the 28th day after the date of the sample collection, so `df` must be `fr + 28 days`
* `du`: The last date on which the certificate is considered to be valid. A recovery certificate must not be issued for NAAT/PCR tests older than 180 days. The date for `du` must be
    * after or equal `fr`
    * before or equal `fr + 180 days`.

## Further resources

* [https://ec.europa.eu/health/ehealth/covid-19_en](https://ec.europa.eu/health/ehealth/covid-19_en)
* [https://ec.europa.eu/health/sites/default/files/ehealth/docs/covid-certificate_json_specification_en.pdf](https://ec.europa.eu/health/sites/default/files/ehealth/docs/covid-certificate_json_specification_en.pdf)
* [https://github.com/ehn-dcc-development/ehn-dcc-valuesets](https://github.com/ehn-dcc-development/ehn-dcc-valuesets)
