README.md, before:

# Certification API Documentation

This repository contains documentation about certification endpoints and related flows for authentication and authorization to be integrated with information systems of physicians, pharmacies and vaccination centers.

**Currently all APIs have a draft status.**

The interface specifications are aligned with the DGC schema specification published in version [1.0.0](https://github.com/ehn-digital-green-development/ehn-dgc-schema/releases/tag/1.0.0).

## OpenAPI Specifications

- **Issuer API** ([Specification](vaccination-certify-api.yaml))

  Provides endpoints for the web frontend, vaccination center software,
  patient management software to issue [DGC](https://ec.europa.eu/info/live-work-travel-eu/coronavirus-response/safe-covid-19-vaccines-europeans/covid-19-digital-green-certificates)
  compliant certificates.
  
- **Re-issue API** ([Specification](vaccination-reissue-api.yaml))

  provides endpoints for the Apps to re-issue validation certificates based on current regulation and rules. These
  certificates are also DGC compliant.

## Authentication

- [Authentication with TI SMCB](SMCB-Authentication.md)


## Copyright

```
Copyright (C) 2021 IBM Deutschland GmbH 
Copyright (C) 2021 ubirch GmbH

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
```

Commit message:

add information for eHealth Network

README.md, after:

# Certification API Documentation

This repository contains documentation about certification endpoints and related flows for authentication and authorization to be integrated with information systems of physicians, pharmacies and vaccination centers.

**Currently all APIs have a draft status.**

The interface specifications are aligned with the DGC schema specification published in version [1.0.0](https://github.com/ehn-digital-green-development/ehn-dgc-schema/releases/tag/1.0.0).

## OpenAPI Specifications

- **Issuer API** ([Specification](vaccination-certify-api.yaml))

  Provides endpoints for the web frontend, vaccination center software,
  patient management software to issue [DGC](https://ec.europa.eu/info/live-work-travel-eu/coronavirus-response/safe-covid-19-vaccines-europeans/covid-19-digital-green-certificates)
  compliant certificates.
  
- **Re-issue API** ([Specification](vaccination-reissue-api.yaml))

  provides endpoints for the Apps to re-issue validation certificates based on current regulation and rules. These
  certificates are also DGC compliant.

## Authentication

- [Authentication with TI SMCB](SMCB-Authentication.md)

## Additional Information

For implementors the official documentation of the Digital Green Certificate
can be found on the [EU eHealth Network](https://ec.europa.eu/health/ehealth/key_documents_en) page.

## Copyright

```
Copyright (C) 2021 IBM Deutschland GmbH 
Copyright (C) 2021 ubirch GmbH

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
```
